when you go out to battle against your
enemies and see horses and chariots and
people more numerous than you do not be
afraid of them for the Lord your God is
with you who brought you up from the
land of Egypt so it shall be when you
are on the verge of battle that the
priests shall approach and speak to the
people and he shall say to them hear o
Israel today you are on the verge of
battle with your enemies do not let your
heart faint do not be afraid and do not
tremble or be terrified because of them
for the Lord your God is he who goes
with you
to fight for you against your enemies to
save you then the officers shall speak
to the people saying what man is there
who has built a new house and has not
dedicated it let him go and return to
his house lest he die in the battle and
another man dedicated also what man is
there who has planted a vineyard and has
not eaten of it
let him go and return to his house lest
he die in the battle and another man eat
of it and what man is there who is
betrothed to a woman and has not married
her let him go and return to his house
lest he die in the battle and another
man marry her
the officer shall speak further to the
people and say what man is there who is
fearful and faint-hearted let him go and
return to his house lest the heart of
his brethren faint like his heart
and so it shall be when the officers
have finished speaking to the people
that they shall make captains of the
armies to lead the people when you go
near a city to fight against it then
proclaim an offer of peace to it and it
shall be that if they accept your offer
of peace and open to you then all the
people who are found in it shall be
placed under tribute to you and serve
you now if the city will not make peace
with you
but makes war against you then you shall
besiege it and when the Lord your God
delivers it into your hands you shall
strike every male in it the edge of the
sword but the women the little ones the
livestock and all that is in the city
all its spoiled you shall plunder for
yourself and you shall eat the enemy's
plunder which the Lord your God gives
you
thus you shall do to all the cities
which are very far from you which are
not of the cities of these nations but
of the cities of these peoples which the
Lord your God gives you as in
inheritance you shall let nothing that
breathes remain alive but you shall
utterly destroy them the Hittites and
the amorite and the Canaanites and the
PIA reside and the highlights and the
jebusite just as the Lord your God has
commanded you bless they teach you to do
according to all their abominations
which they have done for their gods and
you sin against the Lord your God when
you beseech a city for a long time while
making war against it to take it you
shall not destroy its trees by
acts against them if you can eat of them
do not cut them down to use in the siege
of the tree of the field is man's food
only the trees which you know are not
trees for food you may destroy and cut
down to build siege works against the
city that makes war with you until it is
subdued